so when you publish a video on youtube
make sure you share it with your friends
tell them to leave a comment do email
blast push notification blast text
message it out whatever you can to get
those views in the first hour because
when you do that you're much more likely
to rank higher on youtube
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the learn notification
all right so neil and i have been
friends for many many years so this is
going to be a very fun conversation
neil the very first question is about
the three letters that all of us are
scared about
s-e-o
tell us what should we be thinking about
with seo and what are like the main
mistakes that we're all making about seo
sure so
you know it's funny
seo is one of those age-old things with
google there's all these updates they
just recently released a core update and
that's considered like a major update to
the algorithm and in general most people
don't realize this but google makes
eight to
nine algorithm changes per day on
average most of them are very small
and that's a lot to keep up with but
it's that age-old marketing technique
that continually drives revenue that a
lot of us take for granted
and if you want to do really well in
2021 and in the future even beyond that
there's a few things i would recommend
doing
the first is you need more people to
link to you and everyone knows link
building link building is one website
linking to another's and they say the
more links you have the higher you rank
in google but we've noticed a shift in
their algorithm in which you don't need
a ton of links these days if you
actually build less links focus on
higher quality sites and you build them
more slowly funny enough you actually
rank a lot higher than those people's
people that are just continually
building links each and every single day
because google knows it's not natural to
have in many cases tens and thousands of
these links so if you slow down on your
link building you can actually rank
higher and then the next thing that no
one's really focusing on and this one is
big
is page experience so they have this
algorithm update coming out in 2021
called page experience and they're first
rolling it out with mobile it's unknown
if they roll it out to desktop but i bet
they eventually will and google's like
wait we're a computer and yes as a
computer we're looking at things like
keywords and links and authority of a
site but at the end of the day the sites
that should be ranked at the top are the
ones that users love the most so they're
starting to look at the experience are
users actually looking at the content
going to multiple pages or they just
clicking the back button and going to
the next result because they're not
finding what they're looking for so
don't just optimize for a quote-unquote
algorithm if you optimize for the user
experience in the long run you'll rank
better and the last uh tip that i'll
give you and of course we'll discuss
much more than that and this one is due
to my friend here dan who's interviewing
me
uh
years and years ago we did a branded
campaign to get people to talk about me
neil patel so dan came up with this
strategy called who is neil patel and he
had everyone from makeup artists to like
you know big strong fitness people you
know there's this one dude that had my
name plastered on his chest that said
neil patel and then he made his pecs
bounce up and down and it caused a lot
of people to google for my name
and what this caused and it was an
accident i didn't plan this dan didn't
plan this we were just trying to create
a branded campaign but what it caused
was so many people to google for my name
and click on my website that google's
like huh this person has a decent brand
and my rankings for keywords like online
marketing and digital marketing they
shot up to the top of page one
and that itself you know through that
campaign that i did with dan i think in
total we spent 50 or 60 grand over
you know a few months
and funny enough the increase in
rankings actually saved me more than a
hundred thousand dollars a month in
pay-per-click ad spend so it was a great
arbitrage that's awesome so that was a
really fun campaign
i've been noticing every day i go onto
linkedin and the first person i see is
dude
every single day i see either a video or
an article or a tip or advice
how did you get so involved in linkedin
and what was the change that made you
want to go all in on linkedin
yeah so when you think about the social
web there's a pattern there's
facebook's the youtubes the linkedins
and the list goes on and on the biggest
player out there in the social space is
facebook which also owns instagram and
there's this pattern that happens on
most social networks
they're very generous they get you a ton
of organic reach and the moment they
have a ton of users they're like hmm
it's time for us to make more money we
want you to spend more on ads we're
going to crush your reach
now there's three social networks where
it's really easy to get reach from
one is linkedin
one is tick tock and the other is
youtube
so these three networks although i don't
really spend much on tick tock because
it's more b2c but linkedin and youtube
i'm very heavy on and with linkedin
we're just posting content all the time
because if you think about it it's the
underdog more people talk about tik tok
more people talk about instagram or
youtube or facebook very few people talk
about linkedin and i know it's a b2b
network but you have to remember
everyone on there is also a consumer we
all buy toilet paper we all have
toothbrushes and toothpaste and basic
necessities so if you just create
content on there you're going to get
love uh the last stat that i looked up
and i don't know how accurate is now but
it was a few months ago
i was finding an article no saying
something like roughly only three
percent of users on linkedin are
creating content only three percent so
they're like starving for this content
they just want more so it's like if you
want to be part of that three percent
and you want to give us content we'll
just show it to a lot of people because
we're the underdog instagram and
facebook and you know all the other
platforms they don't have that issue
where a very very small percentage is
only creating content so just go out
there and put anything on there and
you'll do well i know that sounds bad
that's the reality
yeah it's fascinating on linkedin and
sometimes i'll get a thousand views 4
000 views then i'll get 39 000 views and
one time i got a quarter million views
and i was like wow this is exciting
because that doesn't really happen on
the other platforms facebook doesn't
really let you go viral anymore
instagram you can't go viral anymore
like
besides tech talk and linkedin you can't
just have that viral effect
and what's really interesting is on
linkedin
when i get 8 000 views that's 8 000
business people right
it's fun to get it on instagram and
facebook and tick tock et cetera but
that's eight thousand everybody right
that's to the masses you don't know
who's watching on linkedin you know
everybody has a job or they want a job
they have a career they have like they
are someone or something that's usually
above 25 years old so it's much more
fascinating when you get those views on
linkedin
okay
youtube you mentioned youtube youtube
seems to be the one that people have the
most struggle with because you actually
have to create long-form content and
people are nervous about that even
though they have expertise inside of
themselves a lot of times they won't
spend the time to put that content out
there on youtube i always say well the
number one search engine in the world is
google and it owns the number two search
engine in the world youtube so they're
usually gonna pull up the youtube
content that's why you wanna do it what
are your thoughts on youtube and what
can people do to not be so scared
the way i see it is if you're gonna
create content on instagram you're going
to create content on facebook put the
same content up on youtube if it's video
based and when we create video content
we put on youtube facebook instagram
linkedin sometimes twitter you can also
put on tick tock but we just spread it
on all the social networks
and what's interesting about youtube is
you don't need to create
20 30 40 minute videos sure they do
great but even 5 10 minute videos do
better or do well and ideally ten does
better than five but somewhere around
that range you're gonna be fine and just
bust out your phone you know and just
record yourself and put it up there um
the guy who
really
brought the phone to light was tai lopez
he would just put out his phone and just
start recording on instagram and youtube
and stuff like that and what you'll see
is people on youtube don't care for
professionally edited videos or anything
like that like they're just happy with
people that bust out their phone and
just go record a video and put it out
there so the first thing is if you're
going to create content might as well
just create content for all the networks
and as long as your videos are under 10
minutes it'll also work for like
linkedin anything over 10 minutes
linkedin doesn't like it
the second thing is is their algorithm
is a lot different than
a traditional google search engine in
which on youtube if a video does really
well in the first hour
and even the first 24 hours the video
ranks really highly right away exactly
and then while with google it could take
six months to a year to get results so
when you publish a video on youtube make
sure you share it with your friends tell
them to leave a comment do email blast
push notification blast text message it
out whatever you can to get those views
in the first hour because when you do
that you're much more likely to rank
higher on youtube and then you just want
to include the right keywords you can do
keyword research there's a lot of tools
from ubersuggest to ahrefs semrush just
go type in some keywords relate your
video and it'll tell you what's popular
and then boom include them in your video
like we're talking about seo and
marketing if this video was uploaded to
youtube because we mentioned marketing
and all those words it'll naturally
start ranking for those keywords